ACPE: Acer pensylvanicum, striped maple
ACRU: Acer rubrum, red maple
ACSA: Acer saccharum, sugar maple
AMSP: Amelanchier species, shadbush
ARSP: Aronia species, chokeberry
BEAL: Betula alleghaniensis, yellow birch
BELE: Betula lenta, blackbirch
BEPO: Betula popilofolia, gray birch
CADE: Castanea dentata, chestnut
COAL: Cornus alternifolia, alternate-leaved dogwood
CRSP: Crataegus sp., hawthorne
FAGR: Fagus grandifolia, beech
FRAM: Fraxinus americana, white ash
HAVI: Hamamelis virginia, witch hazel
ILVE: Ilex verticillata, winterberry
KAAN: Kalmia angustifolia, sheep laurel
KALA: Kalmia latifolia, mountain laurel
LYLI: Lyonia ligustina, maleberry
NYSY: Nyssa sylvatica, blackgum
PIST: Pinus strobus, white pine
POTR: Populus tremuloides, trembling aspen
PRSE: Prunus serotina, black cherry
QUAL: Quercus alba, white oak
QURU: Quercus rubra, red oak
QUVE: Quercus velutina, black oak
RHSP: Rhododendron sp., rhododendron
SAPU: Sambucus pubens, red elderberry
TSCA: Tsuga canadensis, hemlock
VACO: Vaccinium corymbosum, highbush blueberry
VIAL: Viburnum alnifolium, hobblebush
VICA: Viburnum cassinoides, witherod



Phenology Spring Daily Plant Observations

DATE: The date is month/day/year.
JULIAN: Julian date.
TREEID: The tree ID is comprised of the first two letters of the genus plus the first two letters of the species (see "Species Codes" section) followed by a two digit number.
CIRCUIT: Order in the circuit in which the trees were observed.
BCON: Bud condition. This refers to the leaf bud from when it first begins to swell to when it has opened and leaves first appear. Possible entries are NS: no swelling; SS: slight swelling; MS: moderate swelling; VS: very swollen; BB: bud break.
BBRK: This refers to the percentage of buds on the tree that have broken open, revealing leaves.
FBUD: This is similar to bud condition, except it's for flower buds. Here entries are ND: no data; SS: slight swelling; MS: moderate swelling; VS: very swollen; BB: bud break, petals out.
FOPN: This is the percentage of flower buds open on a tree.
FPST: This is the percentage of flowers past bloom, either shrivelled, pollen gone, or petals fallen.
SEX: M: Male, F: Female, P: Perfect, B: Monoecous, ND: No data.
LENGTH: Leaf length in centimeters. The longest leaf is measured; this is not an average. Not recorded for all plants.
WIDTH: Leaf width in centimeters. The largest leaf is measured; this is not an average. Not recorded for all plants.
LFIN: This is the amount of individual leaf growth given as the percentage of final size, i.e. leaves are 25% of total leaf size. This is an average.
L75: This is the percentage of leaves on the tree that are at least 75% of their total size. It does not go above 80.
L95: This is the percentage of leaves on the tree that are greater or equal to their 95% of their final size. It does not go above 97.
TIP: Leaf tip growth. Possible entries are 0: no mention, no growth; F: few tips; S: some tips; M: many tips growing.
COMMENTS: comments
Missing data are indicated by -99.


Phenology Fall Daily Plant Observations

DATE: The date is month/day/year.
TREEID: The tree ID is comprised of the first two letters of the genus plus the first two letters of the species (see "Species Codes" section) followed by a two digit number.
FOPEN: The percentage of flower buds open on the tree.
FPAST: The percentage of flowers past bloom, either shrivelled, pollen gone, or petals fallen.
LCOLOR: The percentage of leaves that have changed color on a given tree.
LFALL: The percentage of leaves that have fallen from a given tree.
CIRCUIT: Order in the circuit in which trees were observed (starting in 2002).
COMMENTS: Comments (starting in 2002).
Missing data are indicated by -99.

Information About Each Plant

TREEID: The tree ID is comprised of the first two letters of the genus plus the first two letters of the species (see "Species Codes" section) followed by a two digit number.
TAG: The tag refers to the order in which the plants are observed in the study area.
START: Date of first observation, if different from 3/23/1990.
END: Date of final observation, if no longer observed.
LATIN: The latin name of the plant.
COMMON: The plant's common name.
SITE: Where the plant grows in the study area. Each code stands for a particular section. LORD=Locust Opening Rd., SWED=Swamp Edge, SSBN=South Slope Burn, CSRD=Causeway Rd., PHRD=Prospect Hill Rd., SFLD=Shaler Hall Fields.
LENGTH: Maximum length of a leaf for that tree, in centimeters.
WIDTH: Maximum width of a leaf for that tree, in centimeters.
SEX: P=Perfect flower, B= Monoecious, meaning both, M= Male, F= Female, U= Unknown.
HGT91: Height of the plant in meters, measured in 1991.
DBH91: Diameter Breast Height of the plant in centimeters, measured in 1991.
CAN91: The canopy position of the plant as determined in 1991. Possible positions are: D=Dominant, C=Codominant, S=Suppressed, I=Intermediate.
COMMENTS: Comments.
Missing data are indicated by -9.0 or -99.00.

